To manage effective supply chains
logistics staff need to balance supplies on hand
with needs of customers.
This involves getting true supply levels
from clinicians to forecast demand.
From here, logistics staff can work with vendors
to accurately forecast orders of supplies.
If the vendor can get a sound forecast on what is needed
in the facility, they can plan their production schedule
in a way where they will be able
to provide the needed supplies.
As a result accurate amounts are ordered,
managed and used for patient care without disruption
through the supply chain.
An example is demonstrated by any increase or decrease
in the amount of supplies needed by the clinicians.
Changes in supplies must be communicated to the vendor
so adjustments can be made to ensure supplies ordered
meet the changed needs.